Modify rule S1905: Migrate to LayC - Redundant casts should not be used (#3236)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S1905/cfamily/rule.adoc

include::../description.adoc[]

=== Exceptions

> In some rare cases, redundant cast might be justifiable. For example, when casting from platform dependant type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some rare cases, a redundant cast might be justifiable. For example, when casting from platform dependant types:
```

your cast might be redundant on one platform but not on the others.

== How to fix it

To fix your code remove the unnecessary casting expression.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
int example(int i) {
  int result = static_cast<int>(i + 42); // Noncompliant
  return (int) result; // Noncompliant
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
int example(int i) {
 int result = i + 42;
 return result;
}
----

== Resources

=== Documentation
* Wikipedia - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_conversion[Type Conversion]
* Wikipedia - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strong_and_weak_typing[Strong and Weak Typing]
* Wikipedia - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymorphism_(computer_science)[ Polymorphism (Computer Science)]

> * Geeksforgeeks - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/type-conversion-c[Type Conversion C]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Geeksforgeeks - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/type-conversion-in-c/[Type Conversion in C++]
```

The new link points to a C++ documentation instead of C. It also includes examples of `static_cast`, and other conversion types that aren't available in C.
